---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Introduction to Engineering and Computing"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
Like all engineering freshmen, I took NGN 110 (Introduction to Engineering and Computing) with Dr. Fadi Aloul this semester. I made a lot of mistakes, and if you're joining us this spring then I hope you can avoid repeating some of my errors. This advice also applies to writing classes.

TL;DR - You're not expected to be Shakespeare or Einstein, so give it just enough effort to finish something okay early and then work on stuff that matters to you.
https://betterexplained.com/.../intuition-first-calculus.../

Scroll down to "How Can We Make Learning Intuitive And Interesting?" for a more coherent and brief summary.

I think it's safe to say that there's many things that make NGN 110 a unique course at AUS. It certainly wasn't what I expected.

The schedule is MW 12:30 to 1:45. You will have lectures on one day, and labs on another, depending on whether you are in an odd or even recitation. Print out your schedule, it will tell you where to go on what day, which is important. I know the excel sheet does not fit on one page, and I know that that bothers you, but crop out the excess detail if that's a problem. The content is not difficult to understand, but you are expected to memorize some meaningless details like the number of steps in such and such process. There's no point in complaining, so just use the slides as flashcards and put a little effort in every day to make sure you can recall the information from memory. The midterm is as important as the final, both are multiple choice, and both are given in the main auditorium with the red seats. There's two quizzes, neither of which are dropped. You're randomly assigned to a team who you have to collaborate with for projects and lab reports. Take notes during the lab so that you don't need to rely on memory when you're all making the report. Dr. Fadi explains everything in the first few lectures. Only email him if it's absolutely necessary. The textbook already exists. Don't simply copy what the teacher/book said, add what you need to make it clear.

You will most likely find the course extremely boring. I did, and everyone I've spoken to felt the same way. You may feel truly engaged in a handful of occasions, but the rest of the time you'll probably feel impatient because you aren't learning anything new. It will feel ridiculous that you are forced to waste time on irrelevant things like Excel when you could be acquiring skills and knowledge that would be interesting and benefit you in the long run. Be patient, and be humble. For some people, the outlet is talking in class -- their own subtle rebellion, making life better in one pocket at the detriment of those outside of it -- a form of entropy, if you're feeling metaphorical. There's no need to search for meaning, your objective is simple: go to class, do your work, and do it well.

In "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People", the first habit that Stephen Covey lists is "Be Proactive", and another is "Put first things first". It will be tempting to explore all the wonderful things on offer at our campus, but that can wait until you have completed (or made good progress on) all of your current or predicted assignments. If you have to choose between doing something properly and doing something on time, then for God's sake do it on time. This is just a fucking paper, it isn't important enough to stress out over, and no one will be hurt by a spelling mistake or an idea that's not quite developed fully. Your instructors can and will overlook typos, but they will not tolerate late submissions. Do you wonder why the grade thresholds are so high? It's because excellence is measured on another metric, it's an additional layer of complexity, and you have to pick your battles. Do what is asked of you so you're free to give 100% to whatever you care about. Perfectionism is your enemy, and it's the easy way out. 

A Doctor who fiddles his thumbs trying to figure out the best way to save a dying patient is useless compared to one who jumps into action, stabilizes their condition, and gets help from others when he doesn't know what to do. If you care about how the quality of your work reflects on you, imagine yourself at a counter ordering fast food. Does it matter to you that the pickles are arranged in a perfect evenly spaced pattern, or that the sauce on the inside of the bun is splattered expertly, or that the patty is heated to the exact temperature that the specifications recommend? No! Imagine if you ordered and the chef started and threw out five batches of fries just because they weren't the precise shade of golden brown and didn't have that crispy texture he prides himself over. You'd think he'd gone mad! 

Now imagine you're the chef and after wasting so many resources making the food meet your absurd standards you get rated the same as the other guy who just slapped an old sloppy joe together. You'd be furious! How dare they? Don't they know art? Did that loser bribe the customer? It's so unfair! You'd fall into a depression, thinking surely something must have been wrong with the burger, and if only you tweaked and refined the recipe, the world would see what a good cook you are. And maybe you do try that, and nothing changes, and you feel like all of your effort's been going to waste and no one appreciates the passion you bring to your culinary craft.

Listen, I've been there. I won't say we all have, but you're not alone. And I sympathize with you, because from your perspective you're trying your best and you aren't seeing results. It's understandable to get frustrated, and you're a beautiful and amazing individual who deserves so much recognition and respect for your sacrifices, and I promise you're going to flourish and succeed and that you should never give up. I believe in you, you're awesome and amazing. 

If I could tell me at the beginning of this semester one thing, it'd be the fast food chef analogy. An especially mature and self aware chef might say, "Oh, maybe it didn't fit that particular customer's taste preferences and palette, no issue, I'll try again." And that's so close, but it's entirely missing the point, and that poor chef is setting himself up for disappointment. It's such a tragedy.

Don't get a big head. You're smart. Razor sharp, and you have a way with words, or numbers, or whatever it is that's as natural as breathing. And that's good. That's really good. But not everyone else has your gift. The manager could sit the chef down, explain everything, and it'd go right over his head if he wasn't ready or willing to accept it. If you've read this far in, I know I can trust that you're invested, so I'm going to bring you in on a little secret.

Your burgers don't have to be perfect.

After all -- for all the effort the Chef puts into his burgers, at the end of the day they're still fast food burgers and the customer bites into it just like any other burger. For all the effort you put into your freshman lab reports, they're still freshman lab reports and your professors will barely skim through them before they grade. I reinvented the wheel, I thought I had to go above and beyond the requirements, but the truth is that the Chef would run circles around the other guy if he just used his superior burger making skills to churn out acceptably delicious sandwiches at a blurring pace. Then he'd meet the quota and work on his sizzler steak. No one writes like they teach you to in your writing class, so why bother wasting time and effort to do that task well when you can do it good enough and try to improve as a writer in other ways? 

I knew so many people (including me) who left the crane project to the last minute because they were too busy planning features it make it to do more than it needed to. Your first priority is blasting out a prototype, and it's a better path to high quality anyway, because you'll have something to submit in the worst case scenario and in the best case scenario you can remove the flaws and refine it with the knowledge you've gained from the mistakes you made along the way.
