---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Introduction to Arabic Heritage II"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took ARA 102E (Introduction to Arabic Heritage II) with Professor Meis Al Kaisi this semester, so I can tell you all about my experience with her, which may not necessarily be the same as what anyone else might have had.
We had thirteen online quizzes, one for each reading, and two were dropped. I'd recommend doing the readings before the quizzes are assigned, since they're a little hefty. The quizzes are open book -- so it's smart to use two computers while taking the quiz (one for LockDown, one for ctrl + f). Some texts aren't immediately ctrl+f compatible, but you can run those pdfs through an OCR to get a word doc and you can paste that anywhere as plaintext and you're good to go after you edit out a couple of errors. With the assistance of search, you'll easily get 100% on all the quizzes, so do them on time. I asked if this was allowed when I visited her during her office hours, and surprisingly, it is considered legal.
The presentation was definitely the most challenging aspect of the course. Pick your group partners wisely, and start early. I think I got really lucky with my members. Make sure that you spend your time efficiently -- hours of reading texts in the library are only useful if they translate into words in your research paper. I don't know how good you are at speaking, but as long as you aren't too shy the actual presentation is probably going to be fine. You can even use slips of paper in case your memory needs a kickstart.
Professor Meis uses a sign up sheet to keep record of attendance. It's just a plain sheet of paper that's passed around in the class where you write your name and ID. She doesn't care if you're late, but miss five classes and you have to be withdrawn from the course. She doesn't seem to mind if you're using your phone in class as long as you're in the back and not disturbing anyone. She tells you what is important and what is not going to be on the test. She showed us movies in class and assigned watching a few of those videos as homework. She lets you take notes with your laptop. She was cool with me standing in class instead of sitting, and was cool with me bringing in a desk from another building because all the ones in ARTS were terrible, and even gave me permission to leave early once or twice. If you email her with a problem, she is unlikely to help -- visit her in person instead, she's a lot more receptive then. She is pleasant both inside and outside of class -- she greets you with a smile and is happy to see you, which meant that everyone thought she was quite nice. She has... an interesting background that flits all over the world, but she's been teaching at AUS since 2010.
The midterm and final exams are purely multiple choice questions. You take them in computer labs. The average performance is B- to C-, and 6-10% score in the range of A. If this seems low to you, there is a good reason: the questions are given one by one and backtracking (i.e, going back to a previous saved question to change the answer) is not allowed. I should mention that it's like this in the quizzes as well. From what I know about how memory works, questions can give your brain little 'cues' that can boost your performance by priming certain parts of your memory, and this advantage of making connections is substantial enough that removing it causes a sharp decline in scores. In other words, basic logic is more powerful than memorization. To get around this, I made notes using a pen on my arm during the midterm. The professor was okay with this, but check with your invigilator in case they are not.
There is no curve and there are no opportunities to score bonuses. To make things easier for you, questions are sometimes reused. That means that if a question came in a quiz, it may come in a midterm, and if a question came in a quiz or midterm, it may come in the final. The final is comprehensive, so this reduces the amount of work professors have to do coming up with new questions too, which lets them focus on other things. If you've ever tried to sign up for a popular course, you know that faculty at AUS are understaffed. 
However, since questions are reused, there are no test banks or past exams available. In addition, you are not allowed to "save" questions by writing them down, taking pictures, speaking them out loud while recording on your phone, typing them into your computer, or quickly jotting down what you still remember into a book while the information is fresh in your mind. As you can imagine, this is not easy to enforce, and I don't encourage it, because if you get caught then you're on your own and you face full responsibility for the consequences. 
To conclude, I came into this course with very little interest in Arabic Heritage, and at first the sheer flood of dates and names was nothing short of bewildering, but by the end when all this information had some time to steep in the teapot of my brain and mix with itself I gained something of an appreciation for the Historical aspect of it. I can draw parallels between something that happened hundreds of years ago and something that happened today because it turns out that human nature doesn't change all that much in the long run. My questions helped foster some discussion in the classroom, I wondered how things would be different if one tiny thing played out in someone else's favor, and it felt like causes were related to effects. Would I do it all over again? No. Do I regret doing it? I can't say so. 
Overall: B+
