---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Technical Theatre Lab"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took THE 245 (Technical Theatre Lab) this semester. There's only one section, and it was with Professor Ann Cadaret. Don't take this course. 

It began when I got an email from the College of Arts and Sciences: Performing Arts - Auditions!

I participated in multiple plays during school, from the humble assembly/classroom skit to the grandiose annual function in the main auditorium. Typically I'd write the script or be involved in its editing, play a leading character and stand in for someone else's role if they couldn't make it to practice (I knew everyone's lines by heart [because I'd written them], so it wasn't a big deal), manage props and clear the set, and bring refreshments so that everyone was taken care of. I was never involved in costumes, choreography, scheduling, or sound/light [except for the basic "microphone's on and there's no reverb" or "the stage is well lit so you can see the actors and the rest of the hall is dimmed and the damn projector wire's connected"]. 

As you can imagine, my ability to plan and improvise meant that I was the first name on any teacher's list when she needed someone to help organize any event, especially one that involved public speaking. It was a virtuous cycle that built my experience and confidence, and that in turn synergized well with my natural talent and passion for creative and eloquent expression.

I have a lot of good memories associated with the stage. I met my first real crush after a performance, I met a lot of my friends through our mutual participation in this extra-cirricular activity, and even though it was hectic at times, the love of the audience and the popularity it gave me was worth the work.
My experience with this course was bad enough that I'm seriously considering closing that chapter of my life for good. I'm certainly never taking part in any "theatre" classes at AUS again. It is the worst ordeal I've faced with anything drama related.

Before auditioning for a role in the play, you're supposed to fill out a form with some details about your schedule and experience. There's an innocuous little checkbox that asks if you'd be willing to join the production crew in case you don't get selected as an actor. They framed it in more diplomatic language -- something about how there were limited seats and the production crew was as important as the cast -- but if you could read between the lines it was clearly a reject stream.
I checked the box. 

It started off slow. In the "preferred role" section I wrote "Male role, NOT Romeo" and the girl right after me copied it with "Female role, NOT Juliet", which was hilarious because the professor decided to start me off with some lines from Romeo. I'm a good performer, but I guess I didn't have what they were looking for, because when I looked at my name in the table posted after the decisions were made I had "Production Crew" next to my name. I wasn't the only one -- but the others were smart enough to quit right away. When we had our first meeting and were filling out an excel sheet with our names and emails, there were about 30 people, but near the end we were culled to a team of 6, me being the only freshman. That meant that our workload was five times what it was planned to be -- the professor eventually had to lure in students from other classes she taught with the bait of extra credit just so we could finish the project on time.

Why did I stay? Well, I knew that if I left just so I could avoid the pressure, that'd shift the burden to the others. I'm persistent, I stick to what I start even when it gets hard. But more importantly, I'm a builder: I loved making things! It was practical! I was needed!

It feels weird to call it a course -- the word is too sacred -- it's like calling someone an author when you really mean someone with a pen and some spare time. It's also disingenuous to call it "Theatre" when really it had more in common with carpentry. Our job was to plan, measure, cut, saw, align, drill, clamp, glue, screw, route, sand, paint, tape, clean, and move wooden platforms.

The professor's budget was too small to afford safety -- we were protected from power tools by mere plastic goggles and prayers. 

Quote: "Hey, is anyone here not afraid of heights? Okay good, can you go climb up there without a harness?"

I have experience with woodworking because I once made a shelf/cupboard from scratch for a D&T project in school (coupled with a 100+ page report -- ugh), but this was on another level. Our boards were nasty, wet, deformed leftovers -- they split and wobbled and never sat flush -- but we couldn't waste anything. Hours were long and changed arbitrarily -- 3:30 to 6:00 was typical, but 5:00 to 10:00 wasn't unheard of. It took more time (and energy!) per week than all my lectures combined, and when you added commuting between uni and home, I had very little time to study, which in turn affected my grades and meant I was falling behind on some of my other duties and responsibilities. Conditions were miserable -- it was loud and smelly and dirty and dusty. I would routinely come out looking like I'd been rolling in the gardens outside (except with more brown and no green). We were required to sign up for 13 hours of extra work (like laundry) on top of the mandatory slots.

Once I was the only one who showed up, so I was our honorable commander Farah's only helper. We untied and uncovered seat covers, folded them, moved a piano, carried a step-ladder, clipped curtains, blah blah blah. After it was all done I told them that if they were ever short and needed someone to shore up the ranks, they could call me up and I'd see if I could make it even if it didn't count towards my total, no questions asked.

Once I was on my knees, scrubbing off yellow paint someone else had dragged onto the red carpet, and I did it with a smile on my face. The only comment Farah (who had a harsh-ish exterior but was a big softie on the inside [kinda like a super soldier]) had for me was "Why are you doing it wet? You'll ruin the carpet" and I showed her how it didn't come off when the rag/sponge was dry, and she was like oh okay carry on.

So there were a lot of odd jobs like that. Carry this metal rack down this narrow basement staircase (my agility came in handy because I had to fit into tiny nooks & crannies), take two wrenches and remove these nuts & bolts so you can lower that segment of the shelving unit and then fix it back in place, hot glue one sample of the each of the contents of this container to the front because we're too ghetto for labels, the trash is getting full so take this load out to the dumpster and put a new bag in, go ask this professor if she'd allow us to disassemble her thing so we can reuse the fabric for the curtains and if she says yes bring it here, recharge this battery and get me a new packet of nails that are this size from the workshop, and so on and so forth. I never complained.

Well, that's not exactly true: there was one thing that I did protest: we were told to do everything in feet and inches instead of centimeters and meters. I remember saying that metric was so much easier for calculations, and that we could use graphs and formulas instead of wordy sequences of instructions to simplify, speed up, and increase the precision of the process. They basically told me to get lost with that engineer stuff, and made that "eww, math, gross" face.

I won't sugarcoat it: I had enthusiasm, but no focus. Sometimes I felt like a special needs burden on the group. Everyone has their weaknesses, and mine is that I have trouble paying attention. When you forget what your orders are, or don't notice when they've changed, even the most patient supervisors and colleagues will get frustrated and snappy. When you're so curious about how something works that you reach out to touch and play with it instead of engaging in your assigned manual labor, they naturally get mad and yell. I didn't mind, through. I deserved it. Boot camp. After every tirade, when they were calm, they'd thank me with token honeyed words for my hard work, and then we'd get back to it. This became the norm. Once one of the girls who'd been brought in from another class asked me why the others treated me so rudely. I blinked, because it was just normal, then shrugged my shoulders and smiled. They were only doing what was necessary to make sure I wouldn't mess up and ruin everything again, after all. How kind of them.

My last day was a week before we opened. I'd pulled a muscle in the morning, bad enough that I couldn't get up. Still, I maneuvered myself into an awkward position and found a way to my feet, managing to make it on time. I told them that my left side is injured, and I'm useless for physical exertion, may I please take the day off?
No, here's a packet of wipes and a broom, go clean that professor's office. I made that room shine with one arm, following which Dr. Cadaret handed me a bucket and asked me to go outside and fill it with sand. I did so. I worked until the pain was so bad I could only sit, cradle my throbbing shoulder, and fail to choke back quiet gasping sobs. It hurt.

Luckily, I only collapsed once they'd run out of things for me to do, and I was allowed the luxury of reading (which was not usually permitted -- neither was phone usage, for that matter). Reading is tough when your shoulder is being annoying, so I cried while desperately hoping no one noticed that it had been fifteen minutes since I'd last turned a page. Physical pain is nothing, it is emotional pain that scars, I told myself. I was fine. I was going to be fine. I distracted myself by sneaking into the Honor's convocation and getting some free food. It wasn't that good, but I hadn't eaten all day, so I devoured it. I was aware that I still remained one who had taken a deep draught from the chalice of privilege -- that this was not real struggle, that true poverty was brutal beyond comprehension. The fine cloth I wore was not meant for lesser skin, the soft bed I returned to was not the fate of poorer backs, the exotic tastes I sampled with my lips had never known any sick beggar's tongue, and that all the bounties I had been granted by my Lord were not the providence of the destitute. I am grateful, I am blessed, I am thankful.

They said I had to come in tomorrow. It was Thursday, and whenever I'd ask people if they meant tomorrow tomorrow or Sunday, they'd always tell me to quit being a smartass, we obviously meant next working day. So I understood tomorrow as Sunday and spent Friday recovering. I only found out they'd meant Friday when I got an email that said that due to missing a technical rehearsal you need to drop the course.

I tried to salvage it. I sent a heartfelt email to the professor and arranged to meet in person. She said she couldn't do anything, that I'd already been replaced, that she didn't feel I was giving the course my 100%, and that if I had a problem I could go speak with the dean [Quote: "Hey, if you still want to be a part of the show, maybe you could Usher."]. (Her tone was much kinder than I'm implying here, and I apologize for that inaccurate reporting on my behalf, being disappointed is no excuse for twisting the truth to make her seem evil.) I emailed the dean to try and schedule an appointment, and never got a response. All that effort for a W on my transcript. I didn't even care about the 1 measly credit hour, and I don't think I fought to stay on because of sunk cost fallacy. Like I said, I'm a builder. I try to make the best out of a bad situation. I'm persistent enough to stick to what I start when it gets hard. I love making things. I'm happy struggling until the bitter end.

I remember how I used to say that Technical Theatre Lab is the only course where I've learned anything. I still stand by that statement. There were healthier and more productive ways I could have utilized my skills and talents and resources if I wanted to contribute to my community and have an impact. This was a total and absolute failure, I was thrown aside like so much refuse. Thank you for teaching me to be more selfish. Thank you for teaching me that hard work is not always rewarded if you can be replaced at a moment's notice, thank you for ripping away a part of my naivety and innocence, thank you for teaching me not to waste my time on things that don't matter, thank you for reminding me that sometimes life's not fair and you just have to suck it up and keep moving forward. Never again. I won't let anyone use and abuse me like this ever again.
