---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Introduction to Psychology"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took PSY 101 (Introduction to Psychology) with Professor Anatoliy Kharkhurin this semester. 

TL;DR : Read the textbook. Google the quizzes. Easy A.

The textbook is too large to attach as a file, so here's a link to the google doc. https://drive.google.com/.../0B7c4g8F8Qp3WOEE0eG0.../view...

I have no formal background in psychology, but it's always been something I found interesting. I follow a blog run by a psychiatrist, I occasionally read books on human behavior, and I've gone through one or two studies on computational neuroscience. I also have this creepy fascination with altered states of mind, so when I'm reading fiction I get excited when I encounter a character who is realistically insane. I had a basic grasp of all the concepts that would be covered in PSY 101 before I took the course, but of course that's not the same thing as knowing everything. 

All of the experience I just mentioned was completely irrelevant. Let me be clear: if you actually want to learn psychology, PSY 101 is not for you. However, if you just want to have a course that won't hurt your GPA and want to get the GER credit done with, then take it in a heartbeat, because you can get it with minimal effort.

All 10 quizzes (none of which are dropped) are online multiple choice quizzes that don't require LockDown. The professor does not consider using the internet to be cheating, he just nods his head and says, "Ah, those are the smart kids." So highlight the question, right click, search google for it, and plug in the right answer from quizlet for a 100% success rate.

Attendance is never taken, because the class is big enough that it would take forever. Don't be late, he doesn't like that. If more than 50% of students get a question wrong in a midterm or final, it's removed and those who get it right end up with a bonus. You can skip the entire semester, read the textbook chapters and module outcomes twice before the exam, and get away with a 90%+. Makeups are offered and the final is not comprehensive. The slides are useless, but the textbook is ESSENTIAL.

What kind of questions are asked, exactly? Well, I could review all my attempts and give you all the questions that came, but that'd require LockDown browser which would mean I have to take pics or move them manually and I don't think anyone is interested. Most of them boil down to label matching. This is situation X, which has these two keywords which are part of the definition of Pattern Y, so the answer is Y.  Low A and High B are a symptom of C. Q would most likely be done by R's. Chad experiences T and U, so he has V. Person H's theory of N includes M, J, and O.

It's beating around the bush. You're not studying psychology, you're just answering questions about what people who study psychology think psychology could be about.

It's removed from the actual work, from the essence of the ideas, from the core insights. It's pretending. It's like playing an instrument without making any music. 

It's like writing by just tracing over someone else's letters. It's like painting by dragging a dry brush across an empty canvas. I can't put it into words, but something fundamental was missing. It rots your mind.

There's no projects or papers or assignments -- you won't need to write a single word in this course. You can participate in SONA studies for 5% of your grade, but that's optional. There weren't enough studies for everyone to participate in, so we just got five questions at the end of the semester where we could just fill in whatever we liked as the answer and get the points we missed out on for a free 5%. We also got a 1% extra for attending the Vikas Swarup lecture.
I'm not going to talk about team teaching.

Assessment structure aside, the Professor was actually likeable. I didn't agree with some of his opinions, and I made that clear, but both of us respected each other's right to have differing opinions and it was never the cause of any friction between us. He could control the class [i.e, he could make students behave and finish on time while still allowing questions and interaction], he was funny, his explanations made sense and he would always try to get us to think about the subject on a deeper level. He wanted to do things differently, but was blocked from the higher ups, so it wasn't his fault. If I could go back, would I do it again? Yes, but only for the grade, which is normally the last thing I care about. Do I regret it? Not really, I met some cool people in this class, and that alone made it worth it.
