---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Linear Algebra"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took MTH 221 Linear Algebra with Dr. Issam Louhichi this semester. Here is a link to a Google Drive with previous exams, the syllabus, textbook, and links to useful resources: https://drive.google.com/open... 
A few people asked me in person to keep sharing my experiences with courses, so I thought I'd give it a shot. I'm currently down with allergic rhinitis, so this'll probably be shorter than my usual posts. We'll see where that takes us. 
Since this is an account from my perspective, you'll first need to know a little about me: I really like math.  
You may remember questions like the following from middle school algebra: 
2x + y = 3 
x – y = 0 
We would solve a problem like this by elimination, substitution, or graphing. If you were feeling lazy, you could put the numbers into a calculator, or use a formula. 
In this case, it is easy to see that x = y = 1. 
When formalizing intuitive concepts, one common approach is to construct a set of objects (symbols) and a set of rules to manipulate these objects. This is known as an algebra. Linear Algebra is the study of linear maps on finite dimensional vector spaces. 
Eventually you will learn what all these terms mean. That's where the majority of effort in a course like this usually goes – getting used to all the new language and terminology. If you feel intimidated by all the strange names, slow down and look up their definitions. The actual calculations are fairly straightforward – you'll just have to add two objects together, or multiply them with a scalar (a number). Remember to keep track of your plus/minus signs. 
The approach used in this course has a focus on theory. If you are not familiar with proofs, then you can consider this course a gentle introduction to mathematical logic and reasoning. Finding the answer is not that important, because computers exist. What does matter is that you are able to communicate your thought process while solving a problem in a way that others can understand. You are encouraged to be creative, so long as you are careful. Be sure to check your solution at the end! 
There are a few algorithms you are expected to learn. These are useful for solving broad classes of problems. You apply a sequence of instructions to transform an object into a form that is more tractable (easier to work with), and with practice, you can execute the steps automatically. It's possible to finish exams in half the time. 
Since I took this course in the summer, it was accelerated. I'd finished the syllabus back in the winter, though, so I was fine. Dr. Issam helped answer my doubts back then even though I wasn't "his" student, and I'm grateful to him for that. I drew pretty little flowers on the front page of my final exam paper, and wrote, "Have a great Summer, Dr. Issam!", because he's really nice and deserved a bouquet. We didn't have any quizzes, and he didn't take attendance. He used markers with different colors when writing on the board – and switched between them to make the "flow" easier to follow. He was high energy! 
Overall Summer was a really satisfying experience for me and I'm definitely doing it again next year. I hope this review helps you succeed if you are taking this course in the future!
