---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Academic Writing"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took WRI 101 with Huda Bakhour this semester. She was my favorite professor because she was lenient, caring, and competent. I’ll admit that I may be biased because I got some special treatment. She permitted me to skip class to attend one or two events, she extended deadlines when my assignments were late, and I could always rely on her to provide me with feedback on my writing, even if it wasn’t strictly class related. I don’t know how I was lucky enough to be blessed with a Saint like Professor Bakhour, but I’m sure that without our good relationship I wouldn’t’ve done nearly as well as I did.

I didn’t think I needed WRI 101, since the quality of my work is pretty decent. I’ve won awards for creative writing and debate, I scored a 9.0/9.0 in the IELTS and a 36/36 on the ACT, I took English Language at A level, I topped internationally on the ACER IBT, I’ve maintained writing as a habit of mine, and of course I established this blog so I could make a small literary contribution to my community.’

I was wrong, because for all my skill I still needed a lot of work when it came to essential bits like delivering on time — a problem I still struggle with, unfortunately, but I’m taking steps to rectify that issue.

The quizzes were easy, just true/false and short answer questions with no final exams or midterms. We were free to choose whatever topic we liked for our essays, provided that we notified the professor beforehand and got her approval. The class atmosphere was relaxed and we were all part of the discussion. There were several group activities. She was a bit strict with marking, so if your only goal is to get the grade then you’re probably better off with someone else. Also, I only ‘clicked’ with one or two tutors at the writing center, and overestimated how useful they’d be. Meeting with your professor during their office hours should be a lot closer to the first thing on your list than the last — especially if you need help.

Here’s my reflective letter:

I did not know my deficiencies so intimately before I took WRI 101. Once, during a volunteering event, I had a short conversation with a Doctor. He told me that I must cherish every loss because failure is worth its weight in gold. If failure is worth its weight in gold, then introduction to academic writing is more valuable than a king’s treasury.

By many standards, I am an excellent writer. I cannot attribute this to natural talent, and that is not merely a statement of humility. I have always loved stories, those grand tales of fantasy that reach beyond us into the stars and deep into us to strike at our hearts. With time, prolonged exposure to the work of this elegant craft’s masters has given me one or two tools to help me express my thoughts and emotions. Escaping into different worlds has become a regular indulgence of mine, and sometimes I am unable to resist the desire to pull someone else into a universe of my creation. Writing is a journey, a pilgrimage, an exploration – and a voyage is lonely without a companion.

The concept of an audience is not foreign to me. I have performed on stage for the entertainment of a crowd countless times, and I seldom disappoint. I bring energy to the podium for the benefit of my spectators, and they appreciate my authentic passion and unlimited confidence. My contributions to my school magazine were prolific, and the overwhelmingly positive response inspired me to start my own blog so that I wouldn’t have to repeat old stories via text messaging.

My sister hesitates before printing documents. She prefers reading on paper to reading on a screen, but is afraid that wasteful use of the printer is expensive and bad for the environment. I’ve told her that this quirk is pretty silly. What is more valuable? What costs more resources to produce? A stack of ink and paper, or a book? If you read it, it is not a waste. A printer is a wonderful machine – it creates value. It creates a product far more priceless than the pittance it consumes. She has relaxed her standards slightly, and now is able to print without being paralyzed by indecision.

What is an audience, and what is the purpose of ink and paper? How do we relate them? For far too long, I thought of an audience as a receptacle. My brain was a fountain of ideas, and writing was the act of collecting bottles from an overflowing spout. This approach works until the spring runs dry and no amount of trying can squeeze out another drop.

So my relationship with writing was much like that of a farmer who depends upon the rain for his crops. Days are good when water is generous, and the heavens are damned when a drought strikes the land. If writing is agriculture, then this course taught me irrigation. It taught me to bore holes into myself until I found a well.

I don’t think there is a single assignment that I completed on time. I worked hard and wrote a lot, but then didn’t constrain that output to the requirements of the submission. I accept responsibility for these faults. I would like to embrace those parts of me that cause me trouble, and listen to their whispers so that I may become a better man.

Discipline is the word that keeps finding its way to my thoughts. Develop your ideas, keep it relevant to the topic, keep the tone formal, remember that a good essay should aim to be a discussion instead of a dissertation. I find it so strange, you know? Deadlines and thesis statements. It seems almost artificial. It is artificial, and I recognize that sanitized writing is the best solution to some problems, but it seems premature in a course that’s supposed to teach you the basics. It is an unusual sensation, but not an unwelcome one.

Before this course, an essay felt wild – a force of nature, a ferocious beast. There was a muse inside of me that was silent until silence was too loud. I would pour my memories into a vessel that would greedily devour content indiscriminately. All my reading and all my learning was only service to the master that gorged on knowledge with an appetite that did not know satiation. When hungry it would punish me with pangs of boredom for not feeding its maw. So I paid tribute to the dragon. Oh, how its pleasure was sweet.

I could sense this presence within me. I was so familiar with its temperament that I began to merge with it, until I did not know where I ended and it began. There was always one state, however, that made the separation distinct. Every time I drew upon the dragon, there was that creeping sensation, a dawning certainty that I was approaching a tipping point. It fostered within me anticipation unlike anything I have ever known. It was a momentous event. The yawning chasm would groan, and the rivers of the world would reverse their direction. Tension, pressing, building, unbearable, expanding, overwhelming, encompassing, until pop!

The cascading release. The dragon gripped me, the muse woke, control was ripped from my stumbling fingers and I succumbed to the wishes of the being that commanded my soul. This was the dragon that visited me at night and tore the fabric of my mind so that I could see. I bore witness with unburdened limitless vision to the web of existence and the truth of the world.

The sheer clarity of this state in itself would qualify for a spiritual experience. I was awake. The lights were on. Doubt and deliberation were stripped away. I knew this gift was temporary. Infinite choices and paths all converged into one way forward. A bomb had gone off and I was being carried by the explosion’s shockwave. Mirrors had surrounded the sun, and all its mighty fire was concentrated into one coherent beam that detonated inside my skull. Urgent. Emergency. Desperation. I was possessed. I needed to write. I ran like a vampire escaping the edge of an eclipse.

Alas, such powerful compulsion cannot last. It is snatched back jealously no matter how much you claw and tug and beg. If you were to trap it in a box it would dissipate like the shadow of morning’s mist swept away by rising daylight. The dragon was but a figment of my imagination, a mythical creature from legends and fables I used to personify something more reckless and abstract. So strong it was, and yet so frail. Look at what it left behind, sparkling jewels embedded in a sprawling jungle. I am not an author. I am a gate. I was open, and so it left me.

Over the course of this semester, writing 101 has taught me how to train my dragon. It is still wild, still untamed, and still unpredictable. However, I am not so dependent on it anymore. It was difficult to unlearn the bad habit of haphazard commitment, and truth be told I’m still trying to get used to it. The dragon is an amazing multiplier, but I’ve been functioning and performing without it doing all the work for me. I hope that eventually my relationship with the dragon will develop into a mutually beneficial alliance where I am an equal rather than a conduit for its dictation.

I don’t think my writing will ever stop meandering from one place to another, because that freedom is a part of my nature. However, constant demands are shaping me into someone who can churn out work when it is necessary at a steady pace rather than filling up like a balloon and bursting with word confetti. Writing is a muscle. I had strength before I came to AUS, and I have been taught endurance. The latter often tends to be more useful.

The emphasis on learning rhetoric seems to be a curious historic holdover from the era when scholarship meant translating and interpreting the texts of the Greeks and the Romans. I recognize the merits of rational thought, but would have appreciated a more modern insight into the art. I understand that we are developing a foundation, but I question the presumption that the early insights are the elementary ones.

I did not deserve the kindness and grace that has been offered to me by Professor Huda Bakhour. Every extension, every minute of counsel, every character of feedback – her dedication and consideration were as clear as a machined optical lens. I am grateful for her assistance. Her virtues inspire me. I am proud to say that she is my teacher and I am her pupil. Without her patience, without her guidance, without her unbounded trust, I would have been lost on an unpaved road that twists and coils around itself. Woe be to me, there is no praise that will suffice to divulge my respect and admiration for her. Farewell, dear educator. Our contact in the context of this course was time spent forging a more meaningful character with a greater propensity for success. With this letter, I honor you. With this letter, I salute you. And with this letter, I thank you.
