---
  title: "Course Evaluations: Discrete Mathematics"
  categories:
    -Blog
  author_profile: false 
  classes: wide
---
I took MTH 213 (Discrete Mathematics) with Professor Ayman Badawi in Fall 2018. Usually I post a Google Drive with the syllabus, textbook, useful links, past quizzes, exams, homeworks, and other stuff, but for Discrete you don’t really require any of that: the only resource you should use is his website: http://ayman-badawi.com/MTH213.html. 

If all you want to do is get an A, then I’ve already given you everything you need, and you should stop reading this review now to start studying. 

For those of you who have some time to waste, here are my thoughts, reflections, and impressions on my experience with the course:

First, a brief overview of the content: Proofs, Numbers, Sets, Structures, and Counting. If you self study from Cambridge, there’s also a section on Formal Languages and Automata, but I haven’t gotten around to studying that yet. All these topics are fairly disjoint. That’s not to say that you can’t find connections between them - in fact, there are deeply satisfying results tying what (on the surface) seem to be very different fields together, but you don’t have the same linear progression you find in most courses. In most courses, each new topic depends on a foundation built before - a tower where you stack one block on top of another, and you can’t jump forward because you’ll be missing pieces. 

But in Discrete, you have a bunch of unrelated things thrown together. I was surprised when I compared the syllabus to MIT’s Mathematics for Computer Science, because while we don’t cover some things like Directed graphs or Generating Functions or Random Walks, the rest of the content matched up pretty well (if you’ll allow for some gaps that were covered in Digital Systems, like State Diagrams, or in Statistics, like most of the probability section). Of course, when I actually took the course, I understood why that was. 

We don’t cover the topics in as much depth. I watched the lectures from Tom Leighton and Marten Van Dijk, and they’re a lot more rigorous. They would painstakingly prove each and every single thing, whereas Professor Badawi could just drop a formula on us without showing us where it comes from. Once I objected to that, and approached Dr. Ayman after class to ask him about the proof for a certain theorem, and he said, “Oh, I teach that in Ring theory”. That conversation led to a rabbit hole where I looked up the terms I didn’t understand, ended up reading through parts of a graduate level Abstract Algebra textbook, and managed to kinda-sorta-but-not-really get it, which is truly an august achievement. Worth it.

The questions we got in quizzes and exams were really basic, at least compared to the end-of-chapter problems in our textbook. I think I only lost 8 or so marks throughout the semester, and the lowest quiz was dropped. There was voluntary homework which I worked on using LaTeX (a programming language that mathematicians and scientists use for typesetting documents), mostly because it was more fun than copy pasting from the handout on lab reports or paying attention in a boring GUI class.  
One may ask: why bother with the extra work? It’s not like it’s graded. True, but there are benefits beyond the joy of learning. When you’re interviewing for internships and jobs, most Big N companies make you solve problems to prove you can code. 213 provides the mathematical foundation for understanding Data Structures & Algorithms, so it’s important to know it well. Understanding abstractions saves me time by helping me pick things up faster - I’m better equipped to read Wikipedia articles, for example, without having to look up the definition of every term. 

I highly recommend Dr. Ayman Badawi. He’s the funniest professor I’ve ever had, he was helpful when I approached him with stuff I was stuck on, and he has a way of presenting material in a way that makes it seem effortless. You can honestly get by with just paying attention in class - it’s a really easy stress-free relaxed course that won’t bore you out of your mind.
