---
title: "Course Evaluations: CMP 340 Design & Analysis of Algorithms"
categories: 
  -Reviews
header:
  image: /assets/images/skiena.png
  caption: "I love this book :D"
---

I’m starting this review with a copy of Steven S. Skiena’s “The Algorithm Design Manual” in my lap. I have no plan for where I’m going with this, but I’ll type away for an hour, and we’ll see if I write something worth reading. This is just the personal perspective of someone who loves CS.

#Comments about the course:

It’s unusual for a CMP course to get a glowing review from me. I’ve criticized our introductory course sequence saying that 3 courses here are equivalent to one course abroad. I have insisted that this is due to faults in the teaching materials and approach as opposed to limitations in student aptitude. I continue to advocate for serious reforms at every available opportunity. 

I believe that improving the freshman/sophomore experience is the most pressing issue the CSE department faces today, especially with every incoming batch’s talent exceeding its predecessors’. The foundation we lay there defines how successful we’ll be in utilizing the potential at our fingertips. I hope you keep this context in mind as we dive into my experience with CMP 340.

In contrast to what you might expect from such a scathing introduction, I’ll say that I honestly enjoyed this course. It didn’t feel anemic. The exercises were fruitful. The breadth was respectable. The principles were solid. It is *this* close to being a top-notch class on par with the international standard. But it isn’t quite there yet. There exist a few matters which merit some discussion.

Now, my confusion isn’t an indicator of failure or danger. There must be some wisdom in the way things are done, after all, but perhaps my humble comments will serve to identify areas in which a trade-off is being made, and maybe with increased resources or reduced constraints it could be possible to shift this trade-off to something appropriate for the current situation. Quality is a continuous process. Tiny adjustments are often necessary to adapt to a changing world.

The first idea that I’ll applaud is the lack of code. “Wait a minute,” you might ask, “don’t we have to learn how to implement these algorithms in order to solve problems?”. Great question, I’d reply. Why don’t you take a course called *implementation* of algorithms, while we here in CMP 340 enjoy their design and analysis? At this stage you must be comfortable with taking a sequence of steps in pseudocode and converting them to your programming language of choice. Agonizing over the exact syntax is wasted effort, a red herring. Google exists. Use it.

CMP 340 isn’t a Leetcode grinding room, which is good, because it shouldn’t be. If you want practical stuff you can read “*Cracking the Coding Interview*” and join a meetup group. This course is theoretical computer science (I can hear the SWEs and COE majors gasp), and I’ll evaluate it on that basis.

I have… grown to accept that courses like MIT’s [6.046](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-046j-design-and-analysis-of-algorithms-spring-2015/lecture-notes/) will always have more content than the AUS equivalent. It’s pointless to throw 50 different techniques at a student and have only 4-5 stick. It is better to cultivate a mindset that can come to a novel concept, systematically dissect it, and apply it when necessary. Still, I wish that we at least talked about distributed algorithms, cache oblivious algorithms, and extremely important and impactful algorithms such as the FFT and simulated annealing. 

One criticism is that there is too much overlap with previous courses such as CMP 305, Data Structures and Algorithms. We already know a lot of this stuff, why spend so much time reviewing it? Typically things feel really difficult up until a moment of insight that makes everything seem trivial. Then practice refines that insight until it becomes automatic and you avoid silly errors. 

Another criticism is that we don’t do enough modeling. There is a small amount in the homework problems, yes, but the hard part of solving problems is understanding the structure of the problem and which parts of the standard toolkit are applicable. We spend a lot of time on *how* to use the algorithms – and barely any on *when* to use them. There is adequate coverage of space-time complexity – except for proofs – but I’m talking more about a general skill of mapping plain English descriptions to the precise language of mathematics.  

One thing I’d like to see is the use of technology to help visualize these algorithms. There are many excellent animations that are available online, such as [this one from the University of San Francisco](https://www.cs.usfca.edu/~galles/visualization/Algorithms.html). We should try to accommodate a variety of learning styles. Whenever someone would come to me with a doubt about how (for example) B trees worked, I could just *show* them. Only after an intuition is established can we proceed to formal definitions. We must observe a process to understand it. 

Of course, flashy videos are no substitute for working things out yourself on a piece of paper. But in most cases they’re a step above watching someone else draw things out on a whiteboard. I think that – if properly executed – it could inject a spark of life and energy into the classroom. 

#Comments about the instructor:

Dr. Salam’s great. I’ll admit she goes a little slowly and repeats herself, but it’s a deliberate repetition, meant to make sure that no one is left behind. She was kind and approachable. She replies to emails promptly. Everyone agrees she’s one of the sweetest people in the department. 

I recall once I visited her office because I couldn’t understand an example in the textbook. Instead of handing me the solution directly, she sat with me and we traced it together, pointing and sketching things out. It felt like I was discussing it with a peer. In the end, we found that my confusion was due to an error in the book: it turns out one of the numbers was wrong. It was an old copy I’d gotten from the library; that particular mistake had been corrected in the latest edition. 

She indirectly gave me the confidence to apply to U.S internships. I’d been putting it off for a while because I didn’t feel like I was ready, but I realized that if this felt easy to me then I shouldn’t have too much trouble with the technical interviews. I would continue to study algorithms even after the course was over, and the best way to pressure me to not procrastinate on it would be the ‘ahh someone is going to be testing me on this stuff soon so I need to revise’ energy.  

She kept her exams easy enough that a few hours reviewing the slides before the midterm were more than enough to get a decent grade. She was flexible with me missing a quiz since I informed her in advance that I needed to be somewhere else on that day, and I did a make-up in her office. She would hand out these colored sheets with sample problems in class so we could follow along.

I’m looking forward to taking more courses with her!
