---
layout: post
categories:
  -Blog
title:  "June 13"
hidden: false
---

This is the first in a series of (creatively named) writing experiments that I'll be sharing with you.  
Why am I hosting these on my website instead of just sending over a pdf file?  
Well, I put so much effort into creating it, but I ended up never using it. Half a year has gone by without me posting anything new.  
And that's not because I've stopped writing — it's because I haven't been brave enough to publish anything online.

I have this idea that my blog should serve as a place where I can demonstrate my technical skills, so writing random thoughts there would go against the spirit of that. At the same time, I have random thoughts that I write down, but I don't necessarily want to publicize them.

I don't need them to be secret — just not front and center whenever you visit. I know that this resistance is irrational, but it's powerful, and it's prevented me from posting for a long period of time. So there's this workaround where you can only access this post if you have the link, and I think that that's good enough for my privacy. Part of me wants to set hidden: false, it's pretty tempting. There, I did it.

This doesn't constitute a return to social media, but I hope it will help me become more comfortable with posting here again.

As with any (re)introduction, let's start with the basics: who am I? No one special, at best someone who is trying to make your quarantine a little more entertaining. Why should you read these? There's really no impetus, but I have a lot of practice writing, and I've enjoyed reading similar things in the past, so I might bring you some degree of insight into how I think (as well as some dry humor). 

Why am I doing this now, and not earlier? Part of the mental block I used to have was anxiety that a potential employer would see what I'd written, disapprove, and withdraw me from consideration for any roles that I'd applied to. I recently had the good fortune to accept a lucrative job offer, and I've matured enough to realize that someone who would decide not to work with me due to my writing isn't someone I'd like to work for anyway. I have a limited number of hours in the day, and although the majority of my essays will still serve as quiet self reflection in the shadows of my hard drive or notebook, I have an opportunity here to share some of what I was already doing with others and impact their lives in a positive manner.

Another question: What's my favorite food?

Well, first of all, how boring do you have to be to have a "favorite food"? I've heard people default to using "pizza", or "biryani", accompanied with exaggerated yet inane descriptions of how much they love that dish — and I relate, I really do, and that's the usual level of sophistication you'd normally expect from small talk. Yet when I'm sitting in front of my phone scrolling through restaurants and menus, that's not what's going through my head as I'm trying to decide what to order from $FOOD_DELIVERY_APP (Contact me if you're from $FOOD_DELIVERY_APP's marketing team and I'll happilly accept a sponsorship to put $FOOD_DELIVERY_APP's name here).

What I have, and what I believe most people have, is a complex set of preferences that interact with their environment in subtle ways. That sentence was hard to write because you could substitute nearly any pair of adjectives for "complex" and "subtle". Try it: "Simple" and "obvious". "large" and "small", "intricate" and "important", "weak" and "powerful". I've made my point, so let's move on.

For example, let's talk about 5 factors that affect my orders. Have I eaten from here before? If yes, then there's a lower chance I'll order from there again because it's lost novelty, unless it was really good, and in that case there's a higher chance I'll order from there because of positive reinforcement. But the thresholds are affected by how willing I am to take risks, what sort of cuisine I'm in the mood for, cost, whether I'll be sharing it with other people, and everything touches everything else in a big ball of cognitive psych. 

If you ask me this question in person, or over a call, you'll hear, "Oh, I love spicy food", and depending on how social I'm feeling I might venture some anecdote about some spicy food I had along with an invitation to try spicy food with me sometime. It's weird to be writing for an audience, because I usually address each piece of writing to one person, and they don't have any way to tell, "Is this guy just sending the same thing to fourteen other people?". The answer to that must be calls, since those are synchronous and therefore it's harder to broadcast. But I get more time to think when I'm writing, and I'm more *me*, so I guess I must mentally distinguish intimate, two-way, personal communication from writing publicly. Urgh, the whole "socialization" thing is so hard to manage. 

That's all I'm in the mood for writing today. There's no hidden meaning behind the food delivery digression; my mind is like a pirate when it comes to boarding other ships of thought. It was fun to do this, so I might do it again, but don't expect other posts to be anything like this one was. No commitments at all, I'll just do it when I feel like it, which might be not for six more months.

Adios.
