---
  categories:
    -Blog
  title:  "June 22"
  hidden: true
  author_profile: false
---

I’ll admit to being a little frustrated today. I’ve been sitting at around 50% productivity for the last 2-3 days and it irks me when I don’t meet my output targets. The unfinished tasks take up space in my head and don’t let go until I feel like I’ve worked on them enough (even if that work results in no progress).  

It’s really irritating when I get interrupted. People can easily see when I’m in the middle of a task and they’re usually polite enough not to cause any problems, but it’s harder for them to identify when I’m *building up* to working on a task. It’s hard to explain. More work is done when I’m staring off into space than is done when I’m typing on a keyboard. I have to manipulate complex structures in my head. 

It’s easier to recover, ironically, when I’m typing things out. Then I have a point of reference – the last line I just wrote, or a comment I added, there’s tracks from which I can return to that train of thought. It’s harder to recover when your unaided thinking was interrupted – everything goes poof. 

Even the slightest hint of a future interruption being possible can knock me off course. Yet at other times you could have an entire circus pass within five feet of my nose and I’d be too focused to notice. 

Nighttime is so much better. I love my family, but they’re really noisy and are a constant distraction. 

My mother made me some lemonade today. It was perfect. It was sweet, and cool, and refreshing. 

I keep track of how I’m spending my time. I’m not obsessive about it, but it keeps me honest. Let me tell you about my day. It’s a good way for me to get my mind off of how annoyed I am that I can’t work. 

There was a partial eclipse today. I didn’t try to observe it since I had no protective equipment, but I found pictures online. Neat. I got a delivery for a longer phone charging cable. A game changer. My mom burnt the eggs she made for breakfast, but I had them anyway. Today’s shower was more satisfying than average while also being shorter; I’m trying to cut down on water waste. We’ve officially covered all the content for the first midterm, which means I’m out of excuses for delaying revision. 

My keyboard backlight can turn red. I think that’s cool. Can you tell that I’m getting bored? 

Ah, let me tell you about the “Invest Like The Best” episode with John Collison, Stripe co-founder.  

First of all, I enjoyed the entire experience. It’s really difficult to get into podcasts in general but this one was worth the time investment. John’s obviously smart and the breadth of his knowledge is impressive. The interviewer was surprisingly good, everything was tightly edited, and I learned a ton to think about. 

There, I said I was going to write about it, and I just did. Highlight: “The great philosopher patio11”. 

I was listening to the podcast during my corridor walk. I found it to be more enjoyable than the median music album. One mistake I made was that my little toe was hurting a bit, and I thought, “I’m not going to let a little thing like that stop me from walking”, and by the end I’d aggravated it and I had to limp. 

It doesn’t hurt too much now. Pain spikes up when I move it. Oh, I’m such a dummy. Such a dummy. 

The Wandering Inn is on break till next week, so I’m going through withdrawal. Help, I need my fic fix.  

It’s difficult to focus in lectures. I can’t sit still. I keep zoning out. My ADHD is being worse than usual. 

What have I been reading? Freakonomics. I don’t like it so far. The problem is that it’s 15 years old and one of the most popular books ever. It’s been around long enough for its ideas to seep “into the water”, so to speak, and I’ve been exposed to its core principles so many times before that they now seem trite, cliché, and obvious. And it’s written in a way that glorifies itself for being so “quirky” and “unorthodox”, and in 2020 I’d say that its ideas couldn’t be more mainstream. I guess I’m not the target audience. 

I was on Amazon Prime Video searching for something to watch. Nothing really appealed to me. I only watch TV or movies when someone else forces me into it. I have only watched maybe like 10 series at all over my life. I checked out the top 250 shows of all time from [IMDb](https://www.imdb.com/chart/toptv) and I’ve seen FMA: Brotherhood, Avatar: The Last Airbender, Rick and Morty, One Punch Man, Over the Garden Wall, and Young Justice. I’ve seen a couple of episodes from others, but outside of the top 250 Re:Zero is the only one I know I’ve finished. That’s pretty much it. 

I prefer books. The Mythical Man Month has been living up to its reputation. More on that later. 

WWDC was exciting, but in retrospect I’m disappointed we’ll only see new chips in September. What’s up w/Neural Engine? And the new GPU that’ll be there apart from the SoC? Hope to see numbers then. 

Going to prep a bit for my midterm now. I’ll attempt a long and focused stretch without switching.  

Let’s go! 

 
