---
  categories:
    -Blog
  title:  "June 15"
  hidden: true
  author_profile: false
---

My mom made some pancakes, but they were so burnt that we jokingly called them toast. 

My sister had mobilized my cousins to make them, so the batter and the first batch was fine, 
but when my mom invaded in the second round she had a 'scorched earth' policy. haha. 

At least the layer of nutella covered up the charred taste.

I've been more active on twitter recently. I don't mean to say I've been tweeting, just that I've been wasting time lurking.

I made the mistake of treating twitter like fb early on, which made it hard for me to get into, since I was mostly adding people I knew irl.

It became much more valuable to me when I added people who I admire and look up to, public figures and those who are into the same stuff I am.

In honor of that, let me write the outline of three mini-ideas I've had bouncing around my head that I don't have the time to develop into full fledged essays.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In the teenage world you win by perfect performance on easy tests (wearing just the right clothes, answering multiple-choice questions correctly), while in the adult world you win by adequate performance on hard tests.</p>&mdash; Paul Graham (@paulg) <a href="https://twitter.com/paulg/status/1271804482297495552?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 13, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
## Virtualization 

Back in 2018 when I was reading "[Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)" I came across the concept of virtualization for the first time. 

> Imagine we have a peach. Let us call that the **physical** peach. But we have many
eaters who would like to eat this peach. What we would like to present to each
eater is their own peach, so that they can be happy. We call the peach we give
eaters **virtual** peaches; we somehow create many of these virtual peaches out of
the one physical peach. And the important thing: in this illusion, it looks to each
eater like they have a physical peach, but in reality they don’t.

The idea is that if you have many tasks each of which has high peak resource usage but low average resource usage, you can assign the rights to that limited resource to multiple tasks simultaneously. Then with clever scheduling, as long as too many tasks don't request access to the same resource at the same time, you can make each task think it has exclusive access to the resource when in fact it is shared between many tasks.

Computers typically virtualize access to resources such as memory or CPU time. Each program thinks it has full access to all the memory it could want, but in reality its access to physical memory is carefully managed by the operating system. To use another analogy, it's similar to a remote worker who takes three flexible jobs, and just switches between the one he's actually working on according to who needs him.

In principle, this is great. You utilize more of your time! But humans can't be constantly in the "running" state like computers can.

The downtime built into a job is a necessary part of performing well in it. But I find that it bores me. In Spring 2020 I worked at a startup while being a full time student, and in retrospect, my performance at both roles was hurt by that decision. Was it worth it? Yes, it was, especially considering the situation I was in. But it was unsustainable and even unhealthy at times. 

In Fall 2020, I was working on some pretty demanding government projects while [being a TA](https://abdur-raheem.com/-blog/TA/) and [presenting at conferences](https://abdur-raheem.com/-blog/IEEE/). In Spring 2019, I [was taking six courses, going for driving classes, writing a math book, and winning competitions](https://abdur-raheem.com/-blog/HSBC/). So this is a consistent pattern with me, and these short descriptions don't even express *half* of the workload I was operating under. 

Now, I'm taking a summer class while knowing that I have an internship starting soon. I have to ask myself: is this a recipe for failure?

I've asked myself this question before, known the answer was yes, and gone ahead with it anyway. Because although the risk of failure was high, the cost of failure was low. My GPA might go from decent to mediocre, who cares? I might not even end up coming with a working solution for this competition before the deadline, no big deal. I'll learn more and grow more this way, and that's what's important to me. I constantly kept trying to cut down on unnecessary fluff, but whenever an opportunity presented itself, I seized it. 

But now the cost of failure is high. I need to stay on track to graduation. I need to secure a return offer. So I adjust the calculation, and I find that I still want to push myself. And the risk of failure is low if I'm strategic about how I go about my responsibilities. But it also means I hesitate to seize new opportunities, because the expected value isn't greater than the opportunity cost. I have to take safer bets.

The situation is good for me this summer. Internships are open ended, so focusing on this wouldn't restrict the scope of what I can accomplish. I'm only taking one class, and I finished all the material in the first weekend, so it won't be that much of a commitment. Even after routinely pushing myself beyond my limit and regretting it, I don't know where the threshold lies where I'm taking too much load to balance, but I do know that this habit of going above and beyond has allowed me to adapt to a higher capacity. 

So yes, adequate performance on hard tests has been my motto, and that's worked out for me better than the ones I saw who chose a policy that let them perform perfectly on a narrower set of tasks. But I wouldn't say their decision was unwise, just that we happened to be in an environment which didn't recognize their talents as much as it was impressed by the story I could build around what I'd done. After all, if you have perfect grades, then it means you know what everyone is expected to know. It's a great signal, but it doesn't (by itself) differentiate you from the competition. 

I'd be careful with the nuance in the tweet, of course. It could easily prove too much. Do a lot of easy tasks, taken together, count as a hard task? I'd argue that although breaking down hard tasks into easier subtasks is the core of problem solving, I believe the spirit of the tweet meant things that pushed you out of your comfort zone. 

It must be something you're not sure you can do. At least, not right away. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Skill is sometimes confused for intelligence. That&#39;s a category error. Intelligence is the ability to efficiently turn the resources at your disposal into new skills at arbitrary tasks. Intelligence is a conversion ratio between information (priors and experience) and skills.</p>&mdash; François Chollet (@fchollet) <a href="https://twitter.com/fchollet/status/1271964134288965633?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
## Mobile Apps

Earlier I mentioned that I finished the material for the one summer course I was taking in the first weekend. How is this possible?

It certainly sounds like an impressive feat. The course started on Tuesday. I wrote 30+ pages of notes, skimmed all the slides for the entire semester, went through the examples + code from all 18 chapters, and was finished with everything by Saturday. 

But even though it sounds like a sprint, it was actually a marathon. It started three years ago when I entered the program and saw that the catalog included this course as a major elective, so I asked around and found out what it involved, got my hands on a syllabus, started reading things online, etc all without knowing that I would take it, only that I *might*. 

And when I knew that I would be taking it, I asked a student who'd taken the course already to send me their study materials, and I started revising official Google android developer codelabs three weeks before our start date. So I took weeks to accomplish what takes weeks to accomplish, the only difference being that I went through those weeks while others were enjoying their break in their own ways.

This was only possible because I was thinking on a timescale longer than the typical student (which is, to be fair, not exactly a high bar). So while I did cram during that weekend, it wouldn't have worked at all if I hadn't set the foundation for it from long before. 

And Android development is one of the areas of software engineering where I'm *weakest*. I'd put less thought and effort into it than most other subfields I knew of (well, maybe that's not true now that the course has started, but it was definitely true before). I'm always aligning myself in ways that make no sense to my family (why are you studying that? you don't have a test on it), but it enables me to ramp up on novel technologies way faster because I'm constantly learning and building a (low bias, high variance) knowledge base. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-theme="dark"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">new blog post: &quot;Biohacking Lite&quot; <a href="https://t.co/MBr2S88RUv">https://t.co/MBr2S88RUv</a> fun to write / learn about quick tour of human energy metabolism <a href="https://t.co/1J6JkLSVwB">pic.twitter.com/1J6JkLSVwB</a></p>&mdash; Andrej Karpathy (@karpathy) <a href="https://twitter.com/karpathy/status/1271542640148795398?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">June 12, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

## Physical resolutions to emotional problems 

Now, you might argue that "Android development" isn't really different enough from regular development to count as a new skill. In that case I'll use the example of someone far smarter than me: "Biology" is totally different from "Machine Learning", yet Karpathy here has a reasonable handle on the former even though he is hyper-specialized in the latter for his day job. 
